.. Background:

Background
===========

This python package is designed for the calculation of ultrafast dynamics in 2d
semiconductor crystals.

In order to understand how to use this package we first can go over the
underlying physics behind the calculations. We want to solve the problem of what
happens when we shine laser light through a 2d semiconductor. Let's first mention
a few important features of such materials and how those features are modelled.

This package is intended for use primarily by those with a reasonable knowledge
of semiconductor and laser physics.

The Semiconductor
------------------

Semiconductors have valence and conduction bands separated by an energy of a few
eV (any undergraduate solid state physics book should have a good description of
semiconductors and band structures). Holes in the valence band can be, via the
Coulomb interaction, form states with electrons in the conduction band -
these states are known as excitons. This means that there is resonance in the
absorption of such media around the bound, optically bright exciton states. The
resonances will therefore be at energies less than the band gap (Eg) of the semiconductor,
the amount lower than the band gap is the binding energy of that exciton state.

The strength of the absorption is influenced by the dipole. The dipole is, in
general a k-dependent quantity. The symmetry of the states along
the band structure can change quite a lot (particularly around avoided crossings),
which can lead to quite large variations in the dipole in k space. This k-variation
of the dipole is often not too important when electron-hole polarization remains
close the band gap position. But in ultrafast physics where one moves away from
the band gap, it can become important.

The code is currently set up to consider monolayers of black phosphorous. The band
structure used is a fit to a tight binding model, which is itself a fit to a DFT
calculated band structure.


The Laser Fields
-----------------
We will specifically consider the case of two laser fields.

One of these will be close to the exciton resonance of the semiconductor. This
allows us to study the physics of what happens when we excite the excitonic state,
and also we can apply the rotating wave approximation to the equations.

There is the option to include a second laser field. Generally, one of a longer
wavelength - typically wavelength>3microns. The reason for this is that fields with
a longer wavelength can drive the polarization generated by the optical laser field
to move around in k space. longer wavelengths at the same laser field strength
allows polarization to move further.


Coupling The Crystal and The Laser
-----------------------------------

In order to solve the time dynamical problem of the interaction, one has to solve a
large set of coupled differential equations: in particular, the semiconductor optical
Bloch equations [Lindberg, M., and Koch, S.W. "Effective Bloch equations for semiconductors." Physical Review B 38 (1988)].

When only an optical field is applied, one can measure the absorption of the crystal.
There exist relationships for extracting this absorption fairly accurately in calculations,
without having to propagate a field through the crystal, that method is employed here.

When both laser pulses are present in the crystal, the optical pulse excites the
exciton state, while the longer wavelength pulse drives polarization in the crystal.
As a result, the light that is transmitted through the crystal contains a series of
spectral components that are sidebands around the optical frequency. This effect
has been measured in several recent experiments [
Zaks,B et al "Experimental observation of electron–hole recollisions." Nature (2012),
Langer,F et al "Lightwave-driven quasiparticle collisions on a subcycle timescale." Nature (2016),
Langer,F et al. "Lightwave valleytronics in a monolayer of tungsten diselenide." Nature (2018)]
